hey what's up everybody welcome back
Brandon again and I want to make a video
today to talk a little bit about
beta-alanine now if you're friends with
me on my personal facebook you probably
know why I'm making this video I posted
something recently in regards to a
certain supplement that came out that I
support and we started get into a
conversation of sorts with Wow McDonald
who a lot of you guys are familiar with
and conversation is an understatement he
kind of went apeshit and it was really
funny to be a part of and it's a very
in-depth post and a lot of swear words
being thrown back and forth so if your
friends can you personally go take a
look at it it's a very interesting topic
to say the least but that brought up
some good points because one of the
things that he had a problem with was
taking beta alanine as a pre-workout and
this is something that I want to address
because often times when people ask me
about pre workouts the first thing I
usually do is I suggest they make their
own
you know that's usually the most cost
effective way and also the best way to
ensure that you're getting things that
actually work instead of prop blends and
all these other things so I typically
recommend beta alanine but that begs the
question is it actually necessary
pre-workout and the answer to that is no
quite honestly it's not so you might be
thinking well why the hell would you
recommend it to me just trying to fuck
with me and no I'm not just trying to
fuck with you I want to explain a little
bit about it so first of all if you're
not familiar with beta alanine I have
another video on it that goes more in
depth about what it does but in summary
it's been shown to help reduce fatigue
increase muscular endurance and help
with strength output overall in the long
run so that means it doesn't have any
acute effects and acute just means
immediate you know something like
caffeine let's say where you take in a
couple minutes later you feel the
benefits of caffeine beta alanine is not
in that regard as far as those things I
just mentioned meaning if you take it
you will not immediately please see
benefits in your strength in your
endurance things of that nature it has
to be taken in the long term to
eventually see those results so you
might ask me asking yourself why the
hell would you recommend it then and the
way I look at things is I kind of try to
eliminate all the fluff so to say so all
the stuff that's not necessary so for me
taking it as a pre-workout it has a
mental effect in the fact that I know
that I'm taking something that has
actually been
shown to work and although it doesn't
have any acute effects in terms of its
overall benefits sometimes people do see
a benefit from it from getting that
feeling that beta-alanine gives you so
you're probably familiar with you know
the tingles or that slight itching
sensation that burning sensation and I'm
not talking about the bad itch and and
burning meaning below the belt talking
about in a good way where you take this
and you feel like it's actually working
or doing something because your body has
a response to it now in some cases you
might look at this as a negative because
some people's response they have a
histamine response something called
paresthesia which is again that burning
itching sensation and again apple of the
belt though is TD's on this channel at
least not saying that other channels out
there have STDs or
do they might be another topic for
another video but some people have such
a response to this where it makes them
extremely uncomfortable and they can't
take it because it detracts from their
workout they start freaking out they
feel weird they don't want to lift like
that while others like that feeling
because again they feel like it's
working and from my standpoint the way
that I look at it knowing that I'm
taking something that is going to
eventually show me some benefit in the
long run is the reason that I like to
take a pre-workout and because it's just
more convenient if I'm taking other
things which I'll do videos on as well
it's easier for me to just add it in
that otherwise I typically have the
tendency to forget to do it later in the
day so I try to take any supplements I
take any vitamins I take I try to take
those first thing in the morning just
because I remember since I'm doing
everything right then right there I
might as well just bang it all out so
beta-alanine if you guys take a promoter
with it let me know your feelings on it
let me know when you take it if you do
again you'll find it in most pre
workouts regardless of if it's
store-bought or not most people will add
it in and it's an easy way for you to
add on the label that again it'll help
increase muscular endurance reduce
fatigue and strengthen the power output
overall so it's kind of one of those hot
topics as well hope that clears some
things up so if you talk to me and I
suggest beta-alanine just know again no
acute effects necessarily but the
benefits no long run are still great in
the meantime everybody will talk to you
soon and stay big
you